{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12920\viewh12540\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
\
- I created the folder for the second paper but have not yet added it to the repo.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 \
Journal of Nonlinear Science\
\ulnone There is no latex template; they reformat the paper after it is accepted.\ul \
\
\
Things to do in second paper\ulnone \
\
It would be really cool to introduce some additional experimental measurements for comparison against the model. Some possible measurements include:\
1) The relationship between skewness of displacement and energy of the slope. \
2) Remember, we removed the slope statistical data from the experimental paper when we changed from JFM to PRF. We can insert this data in the second paper. It would be cool to see what the model predicts on this.\
\
Detail: We could include explanation of how we harvested the slope data. Keyword: Savitzky\'96Golay filter.\
\
Conjecture: I believe the wave-form that maximizes the Hamiltonian is the sech^2 traveling wave solution (or its approximate counterpart in the truncated system). I believe this because the Hamiltonian maximizer will also have all of its translates as maximizes (by simply considering the definition of Hamiltonian in physical space). The Hamiltonian is conserved in time and so the maximizer will simply translate, as does the sech^2 traveling wave solution.}