{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf610
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 From: "Paul Newton" <em@editorialmanager.com>\
Subject: #JNLS-D-19-00390 - Decision on your Manuscript\
Date: April 2, 2020 at 11:53:11 AM EDT\
To: "Nicholas Moore" <nickmoore83@gmail.com>\
Reply-To: "Paul Newton" <newton@usc.edu>\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Dear Dr. Moore:\
\
We have received the reviews of your manuscript, "Anomalous waves triggered by abrupt depth changes: laboratory experiments and truncated KdV statistical mechanics", which you submitted to the Journal of Nonlinear Science.\
\
As you will see from the attached reports, we feel your manuscript could be accepted for publication should you be prepared to incorporate minor revisions. We therefore invite you to prepare a revised version, taking into account all the points noted in the referee reports.\
\
When submitting the revised manuscript please ensure that your document is double-spaced and include a separate PDF file on which all major changes have been HIGHLIGHTED (e.g. by using f), along with a letter detailing your revisions, and, should the following apply, explaining your reasons for not taking action on any of the specific points made by the responsible editor and the referees. Your highlighted manuscript and detailed letter should be uploaded in addition to your revised manuscript source files.\
\
Please make sure to submit your editable source files (i. e. Word, TeX).\
\
Please submit your revised manuscript online by using the Editorial Manager system.\
\
Your username is: nickmoore83\
If you forgot your password, you can click the 'Send Login Details' link on the EM Login page at https://www.editorialmanager.com/jnls/\
\
Select "Author Login" to submit your revision.\
\
We look forward to receiving your revised manuscript.\
\
Thank you very much.\
\
Best regards,\
Alain Goriely\
Anthony Bloch \
Paul Newton\
Editor-in-Chief\
\
Journal of Nonlinear Science\
\
COMMENTS FOR THE AUTHOR:\
\
Reviewer #2: A nice paper with agreement between theory and experiments, and novel new results.\
\
Use of qualitative adjectives where a quantitative description may be better:\
Pg 1 Ln 39: spectacular\
Pg 17 Ln 17: intriguing\
Pg 18 Ln 36: modest\
Pg 19 Ln 37: roughly\
Pg 20 Ln 42: remarkably\
\
On Pg 5 Ln 44, it is said that "the location of the peak is the same for skewness and kurtosis and appears insensitive to driving amplitude". Can you elaborate on "appears" to say whether it is or not?\
\
Section 4.1 refers to Figure 3(b). If you increase N, with the transfer function become eventually collapse to one single curve? If so or indeed if not, why choose the N and Lambda in this range?\
\
For the experiments, images are taken at 60 frames/sec. The numerical differentiation of images of the free surface uses Savitzky-Golay smoothing filters. However, on Pg 18 it is mentioned that there are measurement errors and the differentiation amplifies errors. Can you comment further on this method by, say, looking at how it converges while only looking the images from 20 and 40 frames/sec or by calculating eta_x by a spectral method from eta? \
\
Fig 6 could use a label for the colourbar.\
\
Sharp steps do occur in bathymetry profiles. However, do you think Eq (53) will still apply rather well over other bathymetry profiles such as a transition with a steep finite gradient?\
\
Minor typos etc.\
Pg 6 Ln 60: is leading-order -> is the leading-order\
Pg 7 Ln 21: change dash to en or em dash as appropriate\
Pg 16 Ln 35: Fig. 3(b) -> Fig. 3(c)\
Pg 24: References [17] and [24] require capitals as they are book titles, and [27] requires a capital H for Hamiltonian\
\
\
There is additional documentation related to this decision letter. To access the file(s), please click the link below. You may also login to the system and click the 'View Attachments' link in the Action column.\
https://www.editorialmanager.com/jnls/l.asp?i=74991&l=WORAKANY\
\
\
As a result of the significant disruption that is being caused by the COVID-19 pandemic we are very aware that many researchers will have difficulty in meeting the timelines associated with our peer review process during normal times. \'a0Please do let us know if you need additional time. Our systems will continue to remind you of the original timelines but we intend to be highly flexible at this time.\
\
\
This letter contains confidential information, is for your own use, and should not be forwarded to third parties.\
\
Recipients of this email are registered users within the Editorial Manager database for this journal. We will keep your information on file to use in the process of submitting, evaluating and publishing a manuscript. For more information on how we use your personal details please see our privacy policy at https://www.springernature.com/production-privacy-policy. If you no longer wish to receive messages from this journal or you have questions regarding database management, please contact the Publication Office at the link below.\
\
__________________________________________________\
In compliance with data protection regulations, you may request that we remove your personal registration details at any time. \'a0(Use the following URL: https://www.editorialmanager.com/jnls/login.asp?a=r). Please contact the publication office if you have any questions.}